Feature/data hub 10 15 (#539)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/datahub/setting-up-datahub-bundle/setting-up-initial-configuration.md

---
weight: 30

> title: Setting up initial configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Setting up the initial configuration
```

layout: redirect
---

The setup of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub requires you to configure a Dremio API user and access to a data lake. In the navigator, select **Initial configuration** under **Settings** to define those settings.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
You need administration permissions to define the settings. See the section on [Defining {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub permissions and roles](/datahub/setting-up-datahub#defining-permissions) for details.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> ### Defining initial configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Defining the initial configuration
```

#### Dremio API user

In order to access the data lake contents, you can use ODBC, JDBC, Dremio REST API, or a proxy REST API. See section [Querying offloaded Cumulocity IoT data](/datahub/working-with-datahub/#querying-offloaded) for more details. The proxy REST API is served by the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub server, which acts as a proxy to Dremio. The proxy API requires a Dremio user for the interaction of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub server and Dremio. This Dremio API user can then also be used for data lake querying based on JDBC, ODBC, or Dremio REST API.

Therefore, you have to configure in the initial configuration under **Dremio API user** the name and the password of that Dremio API user.

The name is composed of two parts, with the first part being fixed:

> 1. Tenant id plus forward slash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Tenant ID plus forward slash
```

#### Saving settings
Once all settings are defined, click **Save** in the action bar to the right. During the save process, the following steps are automatically conducted:

* A Dremio API user is created; the user has standard Dremio user privileges, not admin privileges.
* A data lake connection in Dremio is created using the provided data lake settings. For Dremio that connection is technically spoken a source. In our context we refer to it as **target table** as this data lake is used for storing the offloaded data.
* A source in Dremio is created which connects to the Operational Store of {{< product-c8y-iot >}}. That source is not visible to the Dremio API user.
* A space in Dremio is created which you can use to organize your custom Dremio entities such as views. The name of the space is your tenant ID concatenated with 'Space', for example, t12345Space.

### Editing settings

> To edit the Dremio API user, click **Edit** in the **Dremio API user** section of the **Initial configuration** page. An edit form is opened which allows you to edit all user details, except for the username, which is fixed. In section [Setting up additional Dremio users](/datahub/setting-up-datahub/#setting-up-dremio-users), all user details are described.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit the Dremio API user, click **Edit** in the **Dremio API user** section of the **Initial configuration** page. In the dirotr you can edit all user details, except for the username, which is fixed. In section [Setting up additional Dremio users](/datahub/setting-up-datahub/#setting-up-dremio-users), all user details are described.
```

> To edit the Dremio API user, click **Edit** in the **Dremio API user** section of the **Initial configuration** page. An edit form is opened which allows you to edit all user details, except for the user name, which is fixed. In section [Setting up additional Dremio users](/datahub/setting-up-datahub/#setting-up-dremio-users), all user details are described.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To edit the Dremio API user, click **Edit** in the **Dremio API user** section of the **Initial configuration** page. An edit form is opened which allows you to edit all user details, except for the username, which is fixed. In section [Setting up additional Dremio users](/datahub/setting-up-datahub/#setting-up-dremio-users), all user details are described.
```

Author: Done
